.. DO NOT RENAME OR MOVE THIS FILE FROM THE QUICKSTART GUIDE! THIS GUARANTEES
   EXTERNAL LINKS TO THIS GUIDE WILL PERSIST IN E2E AND SUCH.

TI Thread-Stack Quick Start
***************************

The TI-OpenThread Stack examples contain the code to run OpenThread within the
SimpleLink Ecosystem.

This section describes how to import and build an existing example project from
the |SDK|. This section references the ``cli_ftd`` example project
specifically. All TI-OpenThread Stack example projects have a similar
structure.

The TI-OpenThread Stack component of the |SDK| provides TI-RTOS examples for
two toolchains and two major device types. The project's name will contain
either ``ccs`` or ``gcc`` if they support the TI-CGT or GCC toolchain
respectively.  The project's name may contain ``mtd`` or ``ftd`` if it is
showcasing Thread MTD or FTD functionality. Consult the SimpleLink
TI-OpenThread Stack User's Guide for an explanation of MTD and FTD. If an
example's name does not contain this information, consult the example's README
for that information.

Every TI-OpenThread Stack example contains a README.html that details the
example application design details and how each example works. The README.html
can be viewed in Resource explorer or in CCS.


Using TI-OpenThread Stack Projects with CCS
===========================================

Importing a TI-OpenThread Stack example project into CCS will also import the
necessary library projects for that device configuration. These library
projects are marked as dependent projects to the example application project
and will be built when the example is built. For more details and how to change
configurations, look at the SimpleLink TI-OpenThread Stack User's Guide.


Importing TI-OpenThread Stack Examples with CCS
-----------------------------------------------

.. XXX does this need to have pictures?

1. Open CCS to an empty workspace.

2. Open the Import Project dialog by selecting ``Projects`` |rarr| ``Import CCS
   Projects...``, or by right clicking the Project Explorer pane and selecting
   ``Import`` |rarr| ``CCS Projects``.

3. Click the ``Browse...`` button and navigate to
   ``<SDK_INSTALL_DIR>/examples``.

4. In the ``Discovered projects`` pane select the TI-OpenThread Stack example
   project you would like to use, ``cli_ftd_CC26X2R1_LAUNCHXL_tirtos_ccs`` is
   selected for this guide.

5. Click ``Finish`` to import the ``cli_ftd`` example application and
   associated library builds.


Build and Download TI-OpenThread Stack Examples with CCS
--------------------------------------------------------

.. XXX does this need to have pictures?

1. Connect your |DEVICE| to your computer with the provided Micro USB cable.

2. Click the debug icon on the CCS toolbar or select ``Run`` |rarr| ``Debug``.

    .. note::
        This process may take a few minutes for the dependent libraries to be
        built and linked into one image.

3. The XDS110 debug probe may require a firmware update. If one is requested,
   follow the dialog's prompts and watch the console output for a completion
   message.

4. Once the debug session has started, click the resume button in CCS or click
   ``Run`` |rarr| ``Resume``.

5. The red LED on the |DEVICE| should be blinking, go to Running the
   TI-OpenThread Stack CLI FTD Project for more information on how to interact
   with the ``cli_ftd`` project.


Running the TI-OpenThread Stack CLI FTD Project
-----------------------------------------------

Two TI-RTOS tasks are setup by the CLI FTD example. One task runs the
functionality of the TI-OpenThread Stack. The other task sets up the cli module
in OpenThread, then blinks the red LED.

The red LED can be used as a physical indication of whether or not the kernel
has stopped.

To interact with the command line interface, connect a terminal emulator to the
associated COM port or tty. If you running Windows, open Device Manager and
look for ``Ports (COM & LPT)`` |rarr| ``XDS110 Class Application/User UART
(COM**)``; this is the USB-to-UART back channel offered by the XDS110 debug
probe. If you are running MacOS or Linux, look for the device ``/dev/ttyACM*``;
there may be multiple endpoints offered by the same XDS110 debug probe, the
lower number is usually the USB-to-UART back channel.

After finding the port number for the |DEVICE|'s UART back channel use a
terminal emulator to open a session, we will use CCS but any terminal editor
(like PuTTY or Tera Term) would work. Press ``Ctrl + Alt + Shift + t`` to bring
up the New Terminal dialog. Select ``Serial Terminal`` with the Port you found
earlier, ``115200`` as the Baud, ``8`` Data Bits, ``None`` Parity, ``1`` Stop
Bit, and ``None`` Flow Control.

Once the terminal is setup, select the terminal window and press enter a few
times. This will cause the |DEVICE| to prompt you with a ``>``. Type ``help``
and press enter to see a list of available commands. You can use the ``scan``
command to see other networks around you, this may look like below.  More
likely than not, you don't have any networks within range that will respond to
a beacon request so the response area will be empty.

.. code-block:: none

    > scan
    | J | Network Name     | Extended PAN     | PAN  | MAC Address      | Ch | dBm | LQI |
    +---+------------------+------------------+------+------------------+----+-----+-----+
    > | 0 | TI-OpenThread    | dead00beef00cafe | face | 0123456789abcdef | 22 | -58 |  49 |
    Done

    >

.. note::
    The CLI is relativly basic, if a prompt is not visible try pressing enter a
    few times.


Learning more about the TI-OpenThread Stack
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Consult the SimpleLink TI-OpenThread Stack User's Guide for information on the
TI-OpenThread Stack.

Read the OpenThread documentation at openthread.io.


Developing TI-OpenThread Stack projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the Thermostat, Temperature Sensor, Shade, and Doorlock examples as bases
for new CoAP based projects.


Enhancing the TI-OpenThread Stack examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Find in-depth guides such as integrating the TI-OpenThread Stack NCP example
with BeagleBone Black in the |SLA|.


Getting TI-OpenThread Stack Help
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Posting on e2e.ti.com is the fastest way to get an answer to your TI-OpenThread
Stack questions.

If your question is generic to OpenThread, you may also find it useful to post
an issue on github.com/openthread.
