.. _chap-introduction:

Introduction
************

TI 15.4-Stack
=============

TI’s royalty-free TI 15.4-Stack is a complete software platform for developing
applications that require extremely low-power, long-range, reliable, robust and
secure wireless star-topology-based networking solutions. |TIMAC| is a wireless
stack component of the SimpleLink™ MCU platform that implements the standard
IEEE 802.15.4e and 802.15.4g specification. For Sub-1 GHz frequencies |TIMAC|
also implements a frequency-hopping scheme adopted from Wi-SUN® field area
network (:term:`FAN`) specification. This SDK also provides the required tools,
real-time operating system (:term:`RTOS`), and example applications for |TIMAC|
to help developers quickly get started developing their own star-topology-based
wireless network products. The purpose of this document is to give an overview
of |TIMAC| to help developers run the out-of-box example applications and enable
creation of custom |TIMAC| based wireless star-topology networking solutions.
This document introduces the essential need-to-know technology details for
developing a wireless network based on the IEEE™ 802.15.4 and Wi-SUN FAN
specification supported by |TIMAC|.

.. attention::

    Do not use this document as a substitute for the complete specification.
    For more details, see the IEEE 802.15.4 specification and Wi-SUN FAN
    specification.

.. _sec-overview-introduction:

SimpleLink MCU SDK
==================

This SDK is part of TI’s SimpleLink MCU platform, offering a single development
environment that delivers flexible hardware, software and tool options for
customers developing wired and wireless applications. For more information about
the SimpleLink MCU platform, visit (http://www.ti.com/simplelink).

IEEE 802.15.4
=============

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (:term:`IEEE`) 802.15.4
standard defines the physical (:term:`PHY`) and media access control
(:term:`MAC`) layers of the Open Systems Interconnection (:term:`OSI`) model of
network operations. The PHY defines the wireless link conditions like
modulation, frequency, and power, while the MAC defines the format of the data.

TI implementation of this standard combines the following:

-   The basic standard (802.15.4-2006) with the most recent updates

-   The 802.15.4e for industrial applications and 802.15.4g for the smart
    utility networks (:term:`SUN`)

-   An implementation of Wi-SUN frequency hopping


Disclaimer
==========

-   SimpleLink, |TIRTOS|, Code Composer Studio, Sensor Controller Studio,
    SmartRF, BoosterPack are trademarks of Texas Instruments.

-   Arm, Cortex are registered trademarks of Arm Ltd.

-   Wireshark is a trademark of CACE Technologies, LLC.

-   IEEE is a trademark of International Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

-   Node.js is a registered trademark of Joyent, Inc.

-   Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.

-   Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

-   Wi-SUN is a registered trademark of Wi-SUN Alliance.

-   All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
