
.. _sec-oad-types:

OAD Storage & Security
======================

There are a couple of aspects with OAD that one must take into account when
choosing which type of OAD implementation that suits your application.

One aspect is where a new downloaded image is to be stored during the OAD
process, for which you have two methods: on-chip and off-chip. On-chip OAD
stores the downloaded image to internal flash, while off-chip OAD stores the
downloaded image to external flash.

Another aspect is security, which is to whether or not authenticate a new
downloaded image to be from a trusted source. There are two methods of
security: Unsecure and Secure. Unsecure OAD does not apply new image security
before executing it on the device. Secure OAD authenticates new images using
an Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (:term:`ECDSA`) before it is
installed and executed on-chip.

.. note::

    Both OAD storage and OAD security can be configured independently.

.. _sec-oad-types-storage:

OAD Storage
-----------

During an OAD procedure the candidate image is stored either in the internal
flash, which is called on-chip OAD, or in external flash, which is called
off-chip OAD. On-chip and off-chip OAD has associated trade-offs and benefits,
which are summarized in :numref:`Table %s <tbl-oad-types-storage-comparison>`.

.. note::

    Due to flash constraints, on-chip OAD is only supported by some stacks.
    Refer to the stack-specific OAD chapter whether on-chip OAD is supported.

The biggest advantage of using on-chip OAD is allowing a single-chip OAD
solution. However, on-chip OAD does put restrictions on application size in
terms of flash usage.

Off-chip OAD does not have these restrictions, and can store multiple
application images and a factory image in the external flash without limiting
the application size on the internal flash. This, of course, comes at the cost
of requiring an additional component.

Despite their differences, both on-chip and off-chip OAD are invariant to the
transport of candidate images.

.. _tbl-oad-types-storage-comparison:

.. table:: OAD storage comparison

    +------------+-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+
    | Storage    | Advantages                        | Limitations                     |
    +============+===================================+=================================+
    | On-chip    | - No external flash required      | - Application size restriction  |
    +------------+-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+
    | Off-chip   | - Ability to store multiple /     | - Low power external flash      |
    |            |   backup images                   |   required                      |
    |            | - App + Stack merged update       |                                 |
    |            |   supported                       |                                 |
    |            | - Maximum application size        |                                 |
    |            |   available to customer           |                                 |
    +------------+-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+

.. _sec-oad-types-security:

OAD Security
------------

When talking about security in the context of OAD, it is referred to whether
or not new downloaded images must be authenticated as part of the OAD process.
It does not refer to the security level of the actual transport mechanism of
the OAD image. The main purpose for authenticating new downloaded images is to
verify the image is from an entrusted source.

The only difference between secure OAD and unsecure OAD is that secure OAD
will always authenticate new images as part of the OAD process when properly
implemented along with the secure BIM. What it means for unsecure OAD to be
unsecure, is that the problem of not verifying new OAD images could
potentially allow untrusted sources to compromise the OAD Target.

Secure OAD uses Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (:term:`ECDSA`) to
sign and verify secure OAD images. More specifically, the ECDSA-P256 algorithm
is implemented. The underlying authentication mechanisms for :term:`ECDSA` is
that a suitable private and public key pair are generated, and that the
private key used for image signing is thoroughly protected. Only the public
key is stored on Target device.

Secure OAD affects multiple portions of the system including the following
modules, the details of how secure OAD interacts with particular module can be
found in its associated section.

- :ref:`sec-oad-bim`: Image validation/verification procedure
- :ref:`sec-oad-image-header` OAD image header: Added security segment
- :ref:`sec-oad-tools`: Added key generation functionality/ ability to sign image

.. warning::

    It is imperative that the system developer protect the corresponding
    private key. Since any party that has access to the private key can
    generate signed images, these images will be treated as a valid authentic
    image and executed by the device. Likewise, if the private key is lost,
    the ability to generate new valid firmware images is lost.

.. _tbl-oad-types-security-comparison:

.. table:: OAD security comparison

    +------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | Security   | Advantages                          | Limitations                       |
    +============+=====================================+===================================+
    | Unsecure   | - Less complexity runtime           | - Will naively accept, install    |
    |            | - Requires less flash               |   and execute any downloaded      |
    |            |                                     |   images with valid CRC           |
    |            |                                     |                                   |
    +------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | Secure     | - Verifies OAD image authenticity   | - All downloaded images are       |
    |            |   before installing and enabling    |   required to be signed           |
    |            |   device execution of the new       | - Requires more flash for the     |
    |            |   image                             |   for the OAD Image Header        |
    |            |                                     | - Takes longer time (more         |
    |            |                                     |   energy) to perform the          |
    |            |                                     |   firmware upgrade                |
    +------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
